With the recent boom in deep learning, there are many products and devices around us that have AI applied.
For example, there are smartphones and AI speakers.
The environment for developing this AI is also very substantial.
For example, programming frameworks include PyTorch,
Chainer, Keras, and TensorFlow.
Some of them have already been discontinued.
Chainer has finished development with PyTorch as its successor.
In addition, cloud services provided by large companies are also substantial.
Well-known ones offered by Amazon, Google, Microsoft.
If you use the cloud services provided by these,
you can incorporate AI functions into your products and services
even if you can not do programming itself.
These are not the people who will be required in a situation where AI has become commonplace
and the programming environment has been enriched.
For example, people who understand the theory of deep learning,
or people who don't know much about deep learning but can program and use the tools.
The human resources that are needed are those who understand the mechanism of deep learning,
have the technology that can be implemented using the library, and can tune for performance improvement.
It is said that this machine translation has developed very much in recent years.
These are neural network-based machine translations.
For example, DeepL and Google Translate are said to be very accurate.
These tools can translate languages very naturally.
Also, make good use of these tools to read English newspapers and treatises.
AI is said to be very involved in autonomous driving and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).
This is the case of NVIDIA, but deep learning and GPU acceleration are used to detect road signs,
signals, and stop lines in this way.
It is becoming possible for computers to perform functions that can replace the human eye.
Here is an example of general image recognition.
It's a problem of guessing the category of the input image.
This example is the result of an international image recognition contest that triggered Deep Learning attention in 2012.
For example, if you show a picture of this tiger,
the computer will answer that it is a tiger.
If you show a picture of a TV, the computer will say that it is a television.
But, in the image of the koala on the upper left, the computer answers wombat.
Even when it makes a mistake, it makes a mistake like a human being.
It’s been 10 years ago,
it is said that this contest was one of the reasons for the rapid breakthrough of the Deep Neural Network.
It is this Google Cloud Vision API
that provides the general image recognition mentioned earlier as a cloud-based service.
This is an API that enables cloud-based image recognition.
Even if you don't know the mechanism of deep learning and image recognition in detail, you can use it for your service.
For example, it is possible to add a function that detects a person's face
and recognizes what kind of facial expression the person is currently looking at.
There are many AI applications around us.
You can easily experience it with a web application by actually trying it for a while. Please try it.
The first case is the Google Cloud Vision API introduced earlier.
You can access it from this URL.
You can try an AI that will answer what can be seen in the image you upload.
For example, if you upload the image on the upper left,
the system returns the category of the image.
For example, AI responds that "it is reflected", "nature is reflected", and "water is reflected".
You can see that the category recognition is very accurate.
In the example on the lower left, the characters in the image are recognized.
You can easily try this kind of thing, please try it yourself.
As another example, this is an example of automatically coloring a line drawing.
Do you want to try NVIDIA Jetson AI Certification?
This is a Certification issued by NVIDIA.
For example, when you create a CV for employment etc., you can describe it as a qualification.
In this lecture, you will conduct the project using AI with your free ideas,
You can challenge this NVIDIA Certification as a final project of this lecture.
You can also get support from the Japanese staff of NVIDIA Japan.
I think they can handle both Japanese and English.
The participants of this AI seminar can be supported by NVIDIA staff.
You need to submit an English report at the end of the project.
At that time, the university supports the proofreading fee of an English report if you need it.
In addition, we can lend a TurtleBot, a small robot,
and the Jetson NANO, the embedded GPU,
that is necessary for the final task of this project.
This is the flow of this project.
The training phase is a lecture of this AI seminar,
or you can be trained by watching the intro video on NVIDIA's website.
The next project-based assessment will be the final project of this lecture.
The report of the project-based assessment will be evaluated at NVIDIA.
We will support equipment for the project-based assessment,
English proofreading costs for a report.
In addition, when applying to this NVIDIA headquarters, we will also receive support from NVIDIA employees.
If you are interested, please visit this website.
Detailed information is available.
This is a Japanese article.
This article of this certification by Robosta.
If you are interested, please search and read by yourself.
The people of this Robosta made an AI that judges whether people are wearing a mask.
The Jetson AI Specialist has been certified to them as the first in Japan.