Let's start the lecture of the AI seminar.
The topic today is reservoir computing.
Let's see the concept of reservoir computing.
Please see the image below.
Please imagine a container or lake for storing water.
Let's say we throw stones into the water.
If we through three stones in a row into the water,
we can observe the ripples on the surface made by three stones.
The ripples change depending on the size or shape of the stones.
The ripples also change depending on the order in which they are thrown.
Can you imagine the changes in the water surface caused by stones?
The reservoir computing is inspired by an idea:
extract features of time-series data by observing the shapes of the ripples.
The order or time that stones thrown in are appears as the ripples on the surface of the lake.
In other words, memory is represented.
It is suitable for time-series processing.
By attaching a simple discriminator to the reservoir,
the pattern can be analyzed.
The readout is the leaning machine attached to the reservoir.
By reservoir which represents complex patterns and simple leaning machine
time-series data can be leaned.
A linear learning machine is often used as the readout.
The coefficients of a linear function are determined by training.
We have learned a perceptron at the beginning of this course.
The time-series data can be trained by a simple learning machine.
This is the advantage of reservoir computing.
Here, let's compare a linear learning machine, deep learning, and reservoir computing.
A single linear learning machine can not learn non-linear input/output relationships.
Though the training cost of deep learning is high,
its computation performance is high.
It can learn non-linear input/output relationships.
Reservoir computing is the combination of the linear leaning machine and reservoir.
A non-linear input/output relationship can be learned with a low training cost.
However, the computation performance will be vary depending on the tasks.
The diagram below is cited from the textbook.
This diagram shows the relationships between performance and training cost.
The training cost of reservoir computing is roughly the same as a linear training machine,
and its performance is high.
The number of parameters to adjust is fewer than deep learning models with a similar scale.
Though the training cost is low,
the computation performance varies.
By using a reservoir,
a lightweight recurrent neural network can be constructed.
Reservoir computing has a high potential compare to the deep neural network.
This computation model is attracting attention these days.
Let's see the Echo State Network (ESN) which is the typical model of reservoir computing.
ESN is used for time-series pattern recognition.
Echo state, where the input history echoes and remains are created in the reservoir.
The features that appeared in the reservoir are processed by a trained readout.
The only readout is trained.
A simple training machine is often used as the readout.
In the reservoir, recurrent neurons are connected complexly.
This connection is fixed and it is not trained.
Only W^out is trained so the training cost is low.
This is the definition of the vectors in the diagram below.
Input is a N_u dimension vector.
The reservoir has many neurons, from x_1 to x_N_x.
This is connected to the readout.
The dimension of the output layer is N_y.
W_in is the connection weight that connects the input layer and reservoir.
Connection weight within the reservoir is W.
W^out is the connection weight that connects the reservoir and output layer.
W_in and W are fixed, and only W^out are trained.
Let's see the representation of the time-series pattern in the reservoir.
The input vector and W^in are multiplied and given to the reservoir.
In the reservoir, the neuron is connected recurrently.
The recurrent connection at the one-time step before being added.
We can express the time evolution of the reservoir state vector.
A non-linear activation function is applied to each neuron.
An activation function is a hyperbolic tangent unless otherwise noted.
The output vector is the multiplication of the reservoir state vector and W^out.
Let's see the derived models of the ESN.
This is the basic model we have seen.
These are examples of the derived models of ESN.
In this lecture, I explain the model (a), general model.
We have some differences between the basic model and the general model.
First, it has a feedback connection that connects the output layer to the reservoir.
Second, it has a connection that connects the input layer and output layer directory.
Tough we have additional connections, only W^out is trained.
The weight of the feedback connection, shown in green, is fixed.
We have several types of neurons.
Here, I explain Leaky Integrator(LI) model.
By using the LI model,
we can control the speed of the time evolution of the reservoir state vector.
Thus, we can control how much past information we preserve.
α is a leak rate, the hyperparameter of the model.
When, α = 1, only right term effects.
It corresponds to the basic model.
As the α becomes smaller, the changes in reservoir state will not affect the input, u.
The time evolution of the reservoir becomes slower.
This effect is as a low-pass filter that removes the high-frequency components in time-series input data.
Sometimes, the improvement of the performance can be expected by using this model.
This is the simple and effective derivative model of reservoir computing.
Next, I explain the Echo State Property (ESP), which is an important idea of the ESN.
ESP is a property that guarantees reproducibility as a time-series input-output converter.
This is one of the properties that the reservoir should fulfill.
The reservoir state vector is determined by the initial state and time-series input.
If the initial state changes, a reservoir response may differ even if the same input is given.
To prevent the effect of the initial state,
the time evolution of the reservoir state should be determined depending only on the time series input after enough time has passed.
This is the mathematical representation of the previous sentence.
The reservoir state vectors starting from the different states will be converted to the same value, for example, the value conversed to zero.
As showing in this diagram, the reservoir state vectors starting from the different states will be converted to the same orbit.
The reservoir needs to fulfill this property.
These are the condition that fulfills the ESP.
here, the activation function is a hyperbolic tangent.
We often use spectral radius as the index.
Spectral radius is the maximum eigenvalue of the connecting weights of the reservoir.
All eigenvalue should be less than one.
If we continue to multiply a matrix with all eigenvalue is less than one,
the vector will be shortened.
By repeating this operation, the vector will be converted to zero.
This is the famous condition that fulfills ESP.
We need to consider this condition when we design reservoirs.
Another condition is the maximum singular value.
We do not see the details here, but this condition may not be essential.
Basically, we consider spectral radius when we design reservoirs.
Let's see the training methods.
We only need to train readout.
Similar to other supervised learning, we give an input and target signal.
When it solves the regression problem, a continuous target value will be given.
When it solves the classification problem, a one-hot vector will be given.
We have several methods to train readout.
This is the typical method to train the readout.
This is an example of linear regression.
Here we find the W^out that minimizes the squared error of the target and the output of the model.
We will minimize the squared error of D and X.
The formula can be transformed into the following formula.
This is the basic method.
Next, let's see the ridge regression.
In this method, a regularization term is added to the equation.
We can prevent the W^out become larger.
This is the transformed formula.
Similar to the regularization we have seen in this course,
W^out can be determined by solving this equation.
The training cost is lower.
Lastly, let's see some examples of the tasks.
This is an example of linear regression.
In this task, it predicts the value of the sine wave at the next time step.
We give input time-series data to the reservoir and train the readout.
By using ridge regression, it can predict the sine wave.
The output is a continuous value.
Next, let's see the example of classification.
This is an example of voice recognition.
If the output value is zero, only the output neuron of "zero" becomes one.
Other neurons do not respond.
The target signal is the one-hot vector that corresponds to the class.
The reservoir computing can be applied to voice recognition,
however, we need to pre-process the input voice because the training of the original signal is difficult.
We decompose the voice signal according to the frequency band.
By introducing pre-proccing, the voice signal can be classified by reservoir computing.
Now, let's quickly review the topic today.
Reservoir computing is a lightweight model, and it has an ability equivalent to the deep recurrent neural network.
It is drawing attention these days.
This concludes the lecture today, thank you.